docs/_includes/README.md, before:

# InstallModular component

The `InstallModular` component is a reusable MDX component that generates
installation instructions for the Modular package across multiple package
managers (pixi, uv, pip, and conda).

## Usage

Import and use the component in your MDX files:

```python
import InstallModular from '@site/docs/_includes/install-modular.mdx';

<InstallModular folder="my-project" extraLibraries={["torch", "transformers"]} />
```

## Properties

- `folder` (optional): The name of the project folder to create during installation.
  - Type: `string`
  - Default: `"example-project"`

- `extraLibraries` (optional):  Additional libraries to install alongside `modular`.
  - Type: `string[]`
  - Default: `[]` | `modular`

## Examples

Basic usage (modular only):

```markdown
<InstallModular />
```

 Custom project folder:

```markdown
<InstallModular folder="llama-tutorial" />
```

With additional libraries:

```markdown
<InstallModular folder="ml-project" extraLibraries={["torch", "numpy", "pandas"]} />
```

## Generated output

The component generates tabbed installation instructions for:

- **pixi**: Uses conda channels with `pixi add`
- **uv**: Uses pip with custom index URLs via `uv pip install`
- **pip**: Standard pip installation with extra index URLs
- **conda**: Uses conda-forge and Modular's conda channels

Commit message:

[docs] Move requirements.js to docs root path
Obviously (now), we shouldn’t use @site/docs/ path imports because that
means every version of the docs will include the latest version of that
file. We must instead use relative paths, as annoying as it may be.

MODULAR_ORIG_COMMIT_REV_ID: 92c3d2fdaec77c47c681e4ceb3fb2aeab0db9980

docs/_includes/README.md, after:

# InstallModular component

The `InstallModular` component is a reusable MDX component that generates
installation instructions for the Modular package across multiple package
managers (pixi, uv, pip, and conda).

## Usage

Import and use the component in your MDX files:

```python
import InstallModular from '../_includes/install-modular.mdx';

<InstallModular folder="my-project" extraLibraries={["torch", "transformers"]} />
```

> [!CAUTION]
> You must use a relative path in the import statement so the page always
> uses the appropriate version of the included file based on the current docs
> version (from within the Docusaurus `versioned_docs/` path)

## Properties

- `folder` (optional): The name of the project folder to create during installation.
  - Type: `string`
  - Default: `"example-project"`

- `extraLibraries` (optional):  Additional libraries to install alongside `modular`.
  - Type: `string[]`
  - Default: `[]` | `modular`

## Examples

Basic usage (modular only):

```markdown
<InstallModular />
```

 Custom project folder:

```markdown
<InstallModular folder="llama-tutorial" />
```

With additional libraries:

```markdown
<InstallModular folder="ml-project" extraLibraries={["torch", "numpy", "pandas"]} />
```

## Generated output

The component generates tabbed installation instructions for:

- **pixi**: Uses conda channels with `pixi add`
- **uv**: Uses pip with custom index URLs via `uv pip install`
- **pip**: Standard pip installation with extra index URLs
- **conda**: Uses conda-forge and Modular's conda channels
