# v24.5 (2024-09-13)

## ✨ Highlights

- Mojo and MAX are magical! We've created a new package and virtual environment
  manager, `magic`, for MAX and Mojo.

- New
  [Llama3.1 pipeline](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/max/pipelines/architectures)
  built with the new MAX Graph Python API.

- We have not one, but two new Python APIs that we're introducing in this
  release:
  - [MAX Graph Python API](#max-graph-python-api)
  - [MAX Driver Python API](#max-driver-python-api)

## ⭐️ New

- Added `repeat_interleave` graph op.

- Added caching for MAX graph models.
  This means that graph compilation is cached and the executable model is
  retrieved from cache on the 2nd and subsequent runs.
  Note that the model cache is architecture specific and isn't portable across
  different targets.

- Support for Python 3.12.

### MAX Graph Python API

This Python API
will ultimately provide the same low-level programming interface for
high-performance inference graphs as the Mojo API. As with the Mojo API, it's an
API for graph-building only, and it does not implement support for training.

You can take a look at how the API works in the
[MAX Graph Python API reference](/max/api/python/graph).

### MAX Driver Python API

The MAX Driver API allows you to interact with devices (such as CPUs and GPUs)
and allocate memory directly onto them. With this API, you interact with
this memory as tensors.

Note that this API is still under development, with support for non-host
devices, such as GPUs, planned for a future release.

To learn more, check out the
[MAX Driver Python APIreference](/max/api/python/driver).

### MAX C API

New APIs for adding torch metadata libraries:

- `M_setTorchMetadataLibraryPath`
- `M_setTorchMetadataLibraryPtr`

## 🦋 Changed

### MAX Engine performance

- Compared to v24.4, MAX Engine v24.5 generates tokens for Llama an average of
  15%-48% faster.

### MAX C API

Simplified the API for adding torch library paths, which now only takes one path
per API call, but can be called multiple times to add paths to the config:

- `M_setTorchLibraries` -> `M_setTorchLibraryPath`

## ⚠️ Deprecated

- The `max` command line tool is no longer supported and will be removed
  in a future release.

## ❌ Removed

- Dropped support for Ubuntu 20.04. If you're using Ubuntu, we currently
  support Ubuntu 22.04 LTS only.
- Dropped support for Python 3.8.
- Removed built-in PyTorch libraries from the max package. See the
  [FAQ](/max/faq) for information on supported torch versions.
