# v25.3 (2025-05-06)

- [Highlights](#25-3-highlights)
- [Documentation](#25-3-docs)
- [`max` CLI](#25-3-max-cli)
- [MAX models](#25-3-models)
- [MAX Serve](#25-3-serve)
- [MAX Engine & Graph](#25-3-engine)
  - [Python API](#25-3-engine-mojo-api)
  - [Mojo API](#25-3-engine-mojo-api)
  - [Custom ops](#25-3-custom-ops)
- [Kernels](#25-3-kernels)
- [GPU programming](#25-3-gpu-programming)
- [Mojo language](#25-3-mojo)

## ✨ Highlights {#25-3-highlights}

- You can now **install Modular APIs and tools with pip**:

  ```sh
  pip install modular \
    --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cpu
  ```

  This installs the `max` CLI, `max` Python library, `mojo` CLI, and Mojo
  libraries. However, the Mojo LSP and debugger are currently not included.

  We use the `--index-url` argument to ensure that `torch` installs its CPU
  dependencies only, thus avoiding a lot of unnecessary GPU packages. This is a
  temporary workaround until we can remove our dependency on `torch`.

- We **open-sourced the MAX AI kernels** and the rest of the **Mojo standard
library**!

The
[MAX AI kernels library](https://mojolang.org/docs/lib#max-ai-kernels-library)
is a new Mojo API for writing high-performance and portable programs across CPU
and GPU, but it's also
[the source code for our CPU/GPU kernels](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/max/kernels/src).
You can now see the Mojo code we use in MAX to power GenAI workloads on CPUs and
GPUs.

  Just like the Mojo standard library, these kernels are open source under the
  Apache 2.0 License with LLVM exceptions. Plus, the rest of the Mojo standard
  library is also [now open source in
  GitHub](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/mojo/std/src).

- **Learn to program GPUs** with
  [Mojo GPU Puzzles](https://builds.modular.com/puzzles)!

  This is a brand new site that offers a hands-on guide to mastering GPU
  programming with Mojo. Starting from basic concepts, you'll learn step-by-step
  how to program for GPUs by solving increasingly challenging puzzles.

## Documentation {#25-3-docs}

We've restructured the documentation to unify MAX and Mojo documentation
under the Modular Platform. We believe this improves content discovery with a
simplified navigation and helps unify the platform story as a whole.

We've also added the following new docs:

- [REST API reference](/max/rest-api/): Although it's not a new API (our
serving library has supported OpenAI APIs for the last few versions), this
now shows precisely which endpoints and body parameters we support.

- [Speculative decoding](/max/serve/speculative-decoding): An introduction to
using speculative decoding to reduce latency for LLMs. This feature is still in
development.

- [Offline inference](/max/serve/offline-inference): An introduction to our
Python API for running inference with an LLM locally (without sending requests
to a serving endpoint).

- [Introduction to layouts](https://mojolang.org/docs/manual/layout/layouts):
  A guide to working
with dense multidimensional arrays on CPUs and GPUs, using new Mojo `layout`
types that abstract-away complex memory layout patterns.

## `max` CLI {#25-3-max-cli}

- Renamed the `max-pipelines` CLI tool to `max`. We recommend re-installing
  it as shown in the [`max` CLI docs](/max/cli/).

- Remove previously deprecated `--use-gpu`, `--serialized_model_path`,
`--save_to_serialized_model_path`, `--max_cache_batch_size` and
`--huggingface-repo-id` options.

- Move `InputContext`, `TextContext`, and `TextAndVisionContext` from
`max.pipelines` to `max.pipelines.context`.

## MAX models {#25-3-models}

- Added `Llama4ForConditionalGeneration` support, featuring new MoE layers.
  Currently, it is limited to text inputs. Run the model by calling:

  ```sh
  max generate --model-path meta-llama/Llama-4-Scout-17B-16E-Instruct --devices 0,1,2,3
  ```

- Added support for running text generations using the Mistral 3 24B model. Run
  the model with:

  ```sh
  max generate --model-path mistralai/Mistral-Small-3.1-24B-Instruct-2503 --devices 0
  ```

- Fixed empty textual outputs for certain Mistral models
  ([MAX issue 4193](https://github.com/modular/modular/issues/4193)).

- Added support for loading a custom pipeline architecture by module. Using
`--custom-architectures=folder/path/to/import:my_module` will lead to loading
architectures from the file. The architectures must be exposed via an
`ARCHITECTURES` variable in the file. Once loaded, a model can be run using the
new architectures. The flag can be specified multiple times to load more
modules.

## MAX Serve {#25-3-serve}

- Moved from radix trie to hash based prefix caching implementation which has
smaller CPU overheads. This improves performance particularly in workloads with
high cache reuse rates.

- Added experimental support for offloading KVCache to host memory via the
`--enable-kvcache-swapping-to-host` and `--host-kvcache-swap-space-gb` flags.
This allows for superior KVCache reuse through prefix caching in workloads
where the reusable KVCache amount exceeds GPU VRAM.

- Fixed the `usage.prompt_tokens` field in the OpenAI API Usage Info response.
Previously this field was always set to Null, but now it correctly
contains the number of prompt tokens in the request.

- Switched from Python Multiprocessing Queue to ZeroMQ. This reduces latencies
between frontend server process and model worker process related to networking.

- Stray model workers on Linux now terminate more reliably when the parent
  process is killed.

## MAX Engine & Graph {#25-3-engine}

### Python API {#25-3-engine-python-api}

- We now raise an error if there's a mismatch between the expected device of a
weight on a graph and the device of the actual tensor data specified in
[`InferenceSession.load()`](/max/api/python/engine#max.engine.InferenceSession.load).

- Removed `output_device` argument from
[`Model.execute()`](/max/api/python/engine#max.engine.Model.execute).

- Removed the `copy_inputs_to_device` argument in
[`Model.execute`](/max/api/python/engine#max.engine.Model.execute) to improve
predictability of the API. Now `execute()` raises a `TypeError` if arguments
are passed whose devices don't match the model.

- Swapped the order of the `dtype` and `shape` fields of
[`driver.Tensor`](/max/api/python/driver#max.driver.Tensor).
Previously, the arguments are ordered as `(shape, dtype)`. They are now swapped
to `(dtype, shape)` to be in line with other tensor-like types.

- Replaced some instances of
[`Tensor.zeros`](/max/api/python/driver#max.driver.Tensor.zeros)
with `Tensor.__init__` when the engine did not depend on the tensor being zero
initialized. This elides the unnecessary memset to provide a minor performance
improvement.

- Added a new experimental
[`Tensor.inplace_copy_from()`](/max/api/python/driver#max.driver.Tensor.inplace_copy_from).
This allows users to copy the contents of one `Tensor` into another.

- Made the default behavior of
[`Weight`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.Weight)
as expecting the initial allocation on host. A transfer is then inserted to the
target device and this value is returned when weights generate an MLIR value.
This is done due to current conservative ownership around external weights.

- Added the [`irfft`](/max/api/python/graph.ops#max.graph.ops.irfft) op, which
computes the inverse real fast fourier transform (FFT).

- Added the [`argmax`](/max/api/python/graph.ops#max.graph.ops.argmax) op,
which returns the index of the maximum value in an array or sequence.

- Added the [`GroupNorm`](/max/api/python/nn) layer.

- Switched layer names so that `max.nn` layers that are implemented with the
deprecated `Layer` class are marked as "V1", and layers that are implemented
with the new [`max.nn.Module`](/max/api/python/generated/max.nn.Module)
are the default. That is, `max.nn.LinearV2` is now
[`max.nn.Linear`](/max/api/python/generated/max.nn.Linear), and the
previous `max.nn.Linear` is now
`max.nn.LinearV1`.

- DeviceRefs in types/layers are in general expected to be explicit rather than
  implicit.

### Mojo API {#25-3-engine-mojo-api}

- Removed some functionality from
[`tensor.Tensor`](/max/api/kernels/extensibility/tensor/tensor/Tensor):

  - Serializing `Tensor` to disk (`Tensor.tofile(path)` and
    `Tensor.save(path)`).
  - Reading the serialized data back from disk (`Tensor.load(path)` and
    `Tensor.fromfile(path)`.
  - `rand` and `randn` methods have been removed. Use the ones in the Mojo
    standard library if you still need access for constructing a new `Tensor`
    with random elements based on a particular `TensorShape`.

- **Deprecated the Mojo Driver, Graph, and Engine APIs**

  These APIs are not currently used internally. Instead, we build graphs using
  the Python APIs, and our engineering efforts have been focused on making that
  experience as robust and user-friendly as possible. As a result, the Mojo
  versions of these APIs have not kept pace with new features and language
  improvements. These APIs will be open sourced for the community before being
  removed.

### Custom ops API {#25-3-custom-ops}

- You can now pass Mojo source package paths as
[`Graph`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.Graph)
custom extensions. The Mojo code will be
compiled automatically, no need to run `mojo package` manually as a prior step.
Previously, only pre-compiled `.mojopkg` paths were accepted, requiring the
Mojo code to be built as a prerequisite step before running a `Graph` with a
custom op.

  Given a project structure like:

  ```text
  project
  |-- main.py
  \-- kernels
      |-- __init__.mojo
      \-- my_custom_op.mojo
  ```

  You can construct a `Graph` in `main.py` using Mojo custom op kernels simply
  using:

  ```python
  g = Graph(
    ...,
    custom_extensions = [Path(__file__).parent / "kernels"]
  )
  ```

  A change to your Mojo source code defining a custom op will be reflected
  immediately the next time the `Graph` is constructed.

- New
  [image_pipeline example](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/max/examples/custom_ops)
  that demonstrates sequencing custom ops together which modify an image,
  leaving data on the GPU for each op, before writing it back to CPU and disk.

## Kernels {#25-3-kernels}

- More compute overlap is now enabled for Hopper GPUs. This allows finer-grained
  scheduling of kernel operations by analyzing producer-consumer patterns within
  a compute kernel. As a result, there is more kernel compute overlap,
  especially for compute-heavy kernels with data-dependent execution paths.

## GPU programming {#25-3-gpu-programming}

- CUDA driver requirement reduced to version 12.4 and the NVIDIA driver to be
  version 550. Requiring these earlier driver versions allows MAX to be more
  easily deployed on AWS and GCP, since these are the default versions used by
  those cloud providers.

- Added support for programming NVIDIA Jetson Orin GPUs (`sm_87`).

Also see the
[Mojo changelog of GPU changes](https://mojolang.org/releases#gpu-changes).

## Mojo language {#25-3-mojo}

- We recently open-sourced the rest of the Mojo standard library, including the
`algorithm`, `benchmark`, `buffer`, `compile`, `complex`, `gpu`, and `layout`
packages. [See it all in
GitHub](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/mojo/std/src).

- We've also open sourced [all our MAX AI
kernels](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/max/kernels/src).
This new library includes `kv_cache`, `layout`, `linalg`, `nn`, `nvml`, and
`quantization`.

For all the updates to the Mojo language, standard library, and tools, see the
[Mojo changelog](https://mojolang.org/releases).

<!-- #########################
     ###### NEW RELEASE ######
     ######################### -->
