# v24.6 (2024-12-17)

This is a huge update that offers a first look at our serving library for
MAX on GPUs!

- [Highlights](#24-6-highlights)
- [Documentation](#24-6-docs)
- [MAX Serve](#24-6-serve)
- [MAX models](#24-6-models)
- [MAX Engine](#24-6-engine)
  - [Driver APIs](#24-6-driver-api)
  - [Graph compiler](#24-6-graph-compiler)
  - [Graph APIs](#24-6-graph-api)
  - [Custom op registration](#24-6-custom-ops)
  - [Numeric kernels](#24-6-kernels)
- [Mojo](#24-6-mojo)

Also check out our
[blog post introducing MAX 24.6](https://www.modular.com/blog/introducing-max-24-6-a-gpu-native-generative-ai-platform).

## ✨ Highlights {#24-6-highlights}

- **MAX Engine on GPUs preview**

  We're excited to share a preview of MAX Engine on GPUs. We've created a few
  tutorials that demonstrate MAX's ability to run GenAI models with our
  next-generation MAX graph compiler on NVIDIA GPU architectures (including
  A100, A10, L4, and L40 GPUs). You can experience it today by [deploying
  Llama 3 on an A100 GPU](/max/tutorials/max-serve-local-to-cloud).

- **MAX Serve preview**

  This release also includes an all-new serving interface called MAX
  Serve. It's a Python-based serving layer that supports both
  native MAX models when you want a high-performance deployment, and
  off-the-shelf PyTorch LLMs from Hugging Face when you want to explore and
  experiment—all with GPU support. It provides an OpenAI-compatible REST
  endpoint for inference requests, and a Prometheus-compatible metrics
  endpoint. You can use a `magic` command to start a local server , or use our
  ready-to-deploy MAX container to start an endpoint in the cloud. Try it now
  [with an LLM from Hugging Face](/max/tutorials/max-serve-local-to-cloud).

- **Upgraded MAX models**

  As we continue to build our Python-based MAX Graph API that allows you to
  build high-performance GenAI models, we've made a ton of performance
  improvements to the existing models and added a few new models to our GitHub
  repo. All the Python-based MAX models now support GPUs and broad model
  architectures. For example,
  [`llama3`](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/max/pipelines/architectures/llama3)
  adds compatibility for the LlamaForCausalLM family, which includes over
  20,000 model variants and weights on Hugging Face.

## Documentation {#24-6-docs}

New tutorials:

- [Deploy Llama 3 on GPU with MAX
Serve](/max/tutorials/max-serve-local-to-cloud)

- [Deploy Llama 3.1 on GPU-powered Kubernetes
  clusters](/max/tutorials/deploy-max-serve-on-kubernetes)

- [Get started with MAX Graph in
  Python](/max/tutorials/get-started-with-max-graph-in-python)

Other new docs:

- [MAX container](/max/container)

- [Benchmark MAX
  Serve](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/benchmark)

Also, our documentation is now available for **MAX nightly builds**! If you're
building with a nightly
release, you can
switch to see the nightly docs using a toggle to the right of the search bar.

## MAX Serve {#24-6-serve}

This release includes a preview of our Python-based serving library called MAX
Serve. It simplifies the process to deploy your own inference
server with consistent and reliable performance.

MAX Serve currently includes the following features:

- Deploys locally and to the cloud with our [MAX container
image](/max/container), or with the `magic` CLI.

- An OpenAI-compatible server with streaming `/chat/completion` and
`/completion` endpoints for LLM inference requests.

- Prometheus-compatible [metrics endpoint](/max/container#metrics) with LLM
KPIs (TTFT and ITL) for monitoring and evaluating performance.

- Supports most `TextGeneration` Hugging Face Hub models.

- Multiprocess HTTP/model worker architecture to maximize CPU core utilization
by distributing multiple incoming requests across multiple processes, ensuring
both high throughput and responsiveness.

- Continuous heterogeneous batching to combine multiple incoming requests into
a single inference (no waiting to fill a batch size) and improve total
throughput.

There's much more still in the works for MAX Serve, but you can try it today
with our tutorials to [Deploy Llama 3 on GPU with MAX
Serve](/max/tutorials/max-serve-local-to-cloud).

**Known issues:**

- While this release is enough to support typical chatbot applications,
  this release does not yet support the function-calling portion of the
  OpenAI API specification needed to enable robust agentic workflows.

- Sampling is still limited and doesn't currently respect temperature or
  other sampling-related API request input.

- Structured generation is not supported.

- Support for multi-modal models is still nascent.

## MAX models {#24-6-models}

All of our Python-based GenAI
[models on GitHub](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/max/pipelines/architectures)
now support GPUs!

As we add more models, we're also building a robust set of libraries and
infrastructure that make it easier to build and deploy a growing library of
LLMs. Some of which is available in a new
[`max.pipelines`](/max/api/python/pipelines) package and some of it is alongside
the
[models on GitHub](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/max/pipelines/architectures).
Here are just some of the highlights:

- Deep integration with the Hugging Face ecosystem for a quick-to-deploy
experience, such as using HF Model Hub tools to fetch config files, support for
weights in [safetensor](https://github.com/huggingface/safetensors) format,
support for HF tokenizers, and more. (We also support GGUF weight formats.)

- Expanded set of model abstractions for use by different LLM architectures:

  - Attention layers (including highly optimized implementations with
    configurable masking, like
    [`AttentionWithRope`](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/max/nn/attention/attention_with_rope.py)).
    The optimized attention layers include variants that accept an attention
    mask. More memory-efficient variants that don't take a mask instead take a
    "mask functor" argument to the kernel, which implements masking without
    materializing a mask by computing a mask value from input coordinates on the
    fly.

  - Transformers such as
    [`Transformer` and `TransformerBlock`](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/max/nn/transformer/transformer.py).
    These include an initial implementation of ragged tensors—tensors for which
    each dimension can have a different size, avoiding the use of padding tokens
    by flattening a batch of sequences of differing lengths.

  - Common layers such as
    [`RMSNorm`](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/max/nn/norm/rms_norm.py),
    [`Embedding`](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/max/nn/embedding.py),
    and
    [`Sequential`](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/max/nn/sequential.py).

  - KV cache management helpers, like
  `ContinuousBatchingKVCacheManager`.

  - Low-level wrappers over optimized kernels like
    [`fused_qk_ragged_rope`](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/max/nn/kernels.py).
    These are custom fused kernels that update the KV cache in place. Although
    they are custom, they reuse the underlying kernel implementation by passing
    in lambda functions used to retrieve inputs and write to outputs in place.

- Added generalized interfaces for text generation such as
  [`TokenGenerator`](/max/api/python/pipelines.lib.interfaces#max.pipelines.interfaces.TokenGenerator)
  and [`PipelineModel`](/max/api/python/generated/max.pipelines.PipelineModel),
  which provide modularity within the models and serving infrastructure. Also
  added a plug-in mechanism
  ([`PipelineRegistry`](/max/api/python/generated/max.pipelines.lib.registry.PipelineRegistry))
  to more quickly define new models, tokenizers, and other reusable components.
  For example, anything that conforms to
  [`TokenGenerator`](/max/api/python/pipelines.lib.interfaces#max.pipelines.interfaces.TokenGenerator)
  can be served using the LLM infrastructure within MAX Serve. We then used this
  interface to create the following:

  - An optimized
    [`TextGenerationPipeline`](/max/api/python/generated/max.pipelines.TextGenerationPipeline)
    that can be combined with any compatible graph and has powerful performance
    features like graph-based multi-step scheduling, sampling, KV cache
    management, ragged tensor support, and more.

  - A generic
    `HFTextGenerationPipeline`
    that can run any Hugging Face model for which we don't yet have an optimized
    implementation in eager mode.

- Models now accept weights via a weights registry, which is passed to the
[`session.load()`](/max/api/python/engine#max.engine.InferenceSession.load)
method's `weights_registry` argument. The decoupling of weights and model
architecture allows implementing all of the different fine-tunes for a given
model with the same graph. Furthermore, because the underlying design is
decoupled, we can later expose the ability to compile a model once and swap
weights out on the fly, without re-compiling the model.

- Added generic implementations of common kernels, which allow you to plug-in
different batching strategies (ragged or padded), KV cache management
approaches (continuous batching), masking (causal, sliding window, etc.), and
position encoding (RoPE or ALIBI) without having to re-write any kernel code.
(More about this in a future release.)

- Multi-step scheduling to run multiple token-generation steps on GPU before
synchronizing to the CPU.

**Updated models:**

- Significant performance upgrades for [Llama
3](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/max/pipelines/architectures/llama3),
and expanded compatibility with the `LlamaForCausalLM` models family. For
example, it also supports Llama 3.2 1B and 3B text models.

**New models:**

- [Mistral
NeMo](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/max/pipelines/architectures/mistral)
(and other `MistralForCausalLM` models)

- [Replit Code V1.5
3B](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/max/pipelines/architectures/replit)

**Known issues:**

- The Q4 quantized models currently work on CPU only.

- Using a large setting for `top-k` with the Llama 3.1 model may lead to
segmentation faults for certain workloads when run on NVIDIA GPUs. This should
be resolved in the latest nightly MAX builds.

- The models currently use a smaller default context window than the
`max_seq_len` specified in the Hugging Face configuration files for a given
model. This can be manually adjusted by setting the `--max-length` parameter to
the desired context length when serving a model.

- Some variants of the supported core models (like `LlamaForCausalLM` with
different number of heads, head sizes, etc.) might not be fully optimized yet.
We plan to fully generalize our implementations in a future release.

## MAX Engine {#24-6-engine}

MAX Engine includes a lot of the
core infrastructure that enables MAX to accelerate AI models on any hardware,
such as the graph compiler, runtime, kernels, and the APIs to interact with it
all, and it all works without external dependencies such as PyTorch or CUDA.

This release includes a bunch of performance upgrades to our graph compiler and
runtime. We've added support for NVIDIA GPU architectures (including A100, A10,
L4, and L40 GPUs), and built out new infrastructure so we can quickly add
support for other GPU hardware.

**Engine API changes:**

- [`InferenceSession`](/max/api/python/engine#max.engine.InferenceSession)
now accepts a `custom_extensions` constructor argument, same as `load()`, to
specify model extension libraries.

- The [`Model`](/max/api/python/engine#max.engine.Model) object is now callable
to run an inference.

**Breaking changes**:

- `Model.execute()` signature changed to support GPUs.

  - The [`execute()`](/max/api/python/engine#max.engine.Model.execute) function
    currently doesn't accept keyword arguments. Instead you can pass tensors as
    a [`driver.Tensor`](/max/api/python/driver#max.driver.Tensor), `int`,
    `float`, `bool`,
    [`np.generic`](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/arrays.scalars.html#numpy.generic),
    or [`DLPackArray`](/max/api/python/driver#max.driver.DLPackArray)
    ([DLPack](https://github.com/dmlc/dlpack)). Note that both PyTorch and NumPy
    arrays implement the DLPack protocol, which means you can also pass either
    of those types to `execute()`.

  - [`execute_legacy()`](/max/api/python/engine#max.engine.Model.execute_legacy)
  preserves the semantics of `execute()` with support for keyword arguments to
  help with migration, but will be removed in a future release.
  `execute_legacy()` doesn't support GPUs.

  - Calling `execute()` with positional arguments still works the same.

### Driver APIs {#24-6-driver-api}

MAX Driver (the [`max.driver`](/max/api/python/driver) module) is a new
component of MAX Engine that's still a work in progress. It provides primitives
for working with heterogeneous hardware systems (GPUs and CPUs), such as to
allocate on-device memory, transfer data between host and device, query device
stats, and more. It's a foundation on which other components of MAX Engine
operate (for example, `InferenceEngine` now uses
[`driver.Tensor`](/max/api/python/driver#max.driver.Tensor) to handle model
inputs and outputs).

**Driver API changes:**

- Added `CUDA()` device to open an NVIDIA GPU.

- Added support for fp16 and bfloat16 dtypes.

- Expanded functionality for `max.driver.Device`, with new class methods and
properties. We are still working on building this out to support more
accelerator features.

- [`driver.Tensor`](/max/api/python/driver#max.driver.Tensor) (and the
`InferenceSession.load()` argument `weights_registry` ) now supports zero-copy
interoperability with NumPy arrays and PyTorch tensors, using
[DLPack](https://github.com/dmlc/dlpack) /
[`DLPackArray`](/max/api/python/driver#max.driver.DLPackArray).

- [`driver.Tensor`](/max/api/python/driver#max.driver.Tensor) has new methods,
such as `from_dlpack()`, `element_size()` , `to()`, `to_numpy()`, `view()`,
`zeros()`, and more.

MAX Driver APIs are still changing rapidly and not yet ready for general use.
We'll publish more documentation in a future release.

**Known issues:**

- MAX Driver is currently limited to managing just one NVIDIA GPU at a time (it
does not yet support multi-GPU). It also does not yet support remote devices.

- DLPack support is not complete. For example, streams are not yet supported.

### Graph compiler {#24-6-graph-compiler}

When you load a model into MAX Engine, the graph compiler is the component that
inspects and optimizes all graph operations (ops) to deliver the best run time
performance on each device.

This release includes various graph compiler improvements:

- Major extensions to support NVIDIA GPUs (and other devices in the future),
including async copies and caching of JIT'd kernels.

- The runtime now performs scheduling to enable GPU compute overlap with the
CPU.

- New transformations to the Mojo kernels to enable a number of optimizations,
including specialization on tensor dimensions, specialization on target
hardware, specialization on non-tensor dimension input to kernels, automatic
kernel fusion between operators, and more.

- New algebraic simplifications and algorithms for ops such as horizontal
fusion of matrix multiplications.

- New CPU-side primitives for device management that are automatically
transformed and optimized to reduce overhead (MAX does not need to use things
like CUDA Graphs).

- Updated memory planning to preallocate device memory (hoist computation from
inference runtime to initialization time) and reduce per-inference overhead.

### Graph APIs {#24-6-graph-api}

The graph compiler is also exposed through the MAX Graph APIs (the
[`max.graph`](/max/api/python/graph) package), which allow you to build
high-performance GenAI models in Python.

**Graph API changes:**

- Python stack traces from model execution failures now include a trace to the
original op-creation, allowing for easier debugging during development.

- The [`max.graph`](/max/api/python/graph) APIs now include preliminary
support for symbolic algebraic expressions using
[`AlgebraicDim`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.AlgebraicDim),
enabling more powerful support for checked dynamic shapes. This allows
`-Dim("x") - 4`. Furthermore, the algebraic expressions simplify to a canonical
form, so that for example `-Dim("x") - 4 == -(Dim("x") + 4)` holds.

- More advanced dtype promotion now allows
[`TensorValue`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.TensorValue)
math operators to just work when used with NumPy arrays and
python primitives.

- [`TensorValue`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.TensorValue)
has new methods, such as `broadcast_to()`, `cast()`,
`flatten()`, `permute()`, and more.

- Added
[`BufferValue`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.BufferValue),
which allows for device-resident tensors that are read and
mutated within the graph.

- [`DType`](/max/api/python/dtype#max.dtype.DType) has new methods/properties,
  `align`, `size_in_bytes`, and `is_float()`.

- [`Value`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.Value) constructor
accepts more types for `value`.

- [`TensorValue`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.TensorValue)
constructor accepts more types for `value`.

- [`TensorValue.rebind()`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.TensorValue#max.graph.TensorValue.rebind)
accepts a new `message` argument.

**Breaking changes:**

- [`Graph.add_weight()`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.Graph#max.graph.Graph.add_weight)
now accepts
[`Weight`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.Weight#max.graph.Weight)
and returns
[`TensorValue`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.TensorValue).
[`Weight`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.Weight#max.graph.Weight)
is essentially a
named placeholder for a tensor that knows its name, dtype, shape, and
optionally device and quantization encoding. `Graph.add_weight()` stages an op
in the graph that is populated by a named weight in the weights registry passed
to `session.load`.

- The [`Weight`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.Weight#max.graph.Weight)
  constructor
arguments changed; added `align` , `dtype` , and `shape`; removed `assign` ,
`filepath`, `offset`, and `value`.

- The `ops.scalar()` method was removed along with the `is_static()` and
`is_symbolic()` methods from all `graph.type` objects.

  - Instead of `ops.scalar()`, use
  [`ops.constant()`](/max/api/python/graph.ops#max.graph.ops.constant).

  - Instead of `is_static()` and `is_symbolic()`, use
    `isinstance(dim, SymbolicDim)` and `isinstance(dim, StaticDim)`.

The MAX Graph APIs are not ready for general use but you can [experiment with
it now by following this
tutorial](/max/tutorials/get-started-with-max-graph-in-python). We'll add more
documentation when we finish some API redesigns.

### Custom op registration {#24-6-custom-ops}

Although the APIs to write custom operators (ops) isn't ready for general use,
this release includes a significant redesign that lays the groundwork. You
might notice some associated APIs in this release and more APIs in the
nightlies, so here's a little about the work in progress:

- The custom op APIs will allow you to extend MAX Engine with new ops written
in Mojo, providing full composability and extensibility for your models. It's
the exact same API we use to write MAX Engine's built-in ops such as `matmul`.
That means your custom ops can benefit from all our compiler optimization
features such as kernel fusion—your ops are treated the same as all the ops
included "in the box."

- The new API requires far less adornment at the definition site to enable the
MAX model compiler to optimize custom ops along with the rest of the graph
(compared to our previous version that used `NDBuffer`).

- Custom ops support "destination passing style" for tensors.

- The design composes on top of Mojo's powerful meta programming, as well as
the kernel libraries abstractions for composable kernels.

We'll publish more documentation when the custom op API is ready for general
use. Check out the MAX repo's `nightly` branch to see the latest [custom op
examples](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/max/examples/custom_ops).

**Known issues:**

- Custom ops don't have type or lifetime checking. They also don't reason about
mutability. Expect lots of sharp corners and segfaults if you hold them wrong
while we improve this!

### Numeric kernels {#24-6-kernels}

The GPU kernels for MAX Engine are built from the ground up in Mojo with no
dependencies on external vendor code or libraries. This release includes the
following kernel improvements:

- AttenGen: a novel way to express attention pattern that's able to express
different attention masks, score functions, as well as caching strategies.

- State-of-the-art matrix multiplication algorithms with optimizations such as
the following:

  - Pipelining and double-buffering to overlap data transfer and computation
  and to hide memory access latency (for both global and shared memory).

  - Thread swizzling to avoid shared memory bank conflicts associated with
  tensor core layouts.

  - Block swizzling to increase L2 cache locality.

- SplitK/StreamK GEMM algorithms: divides the computation along the shared K
dimension into smaller matrices which can then be executed independently on
streaming multiprocessors (such as CUDA cores). These algorithms are ideal for
matrices with large K dimension but small M dimension.

- Large context length MHA: uses SplitK/StreamK to implement the attention
mechanism and eliminate the need of a huge score matrix, which drastically
reduces memory usage/traffic to enable large context length.

- DualGemm: accelerates the multi-layer perceptron (MLP) layers where the
left-hand side (LHS) is shared between two matrix multiplications.

**Known issues:**

- The MAX kernels are optimized for bfloat16 on GPUs.

- Convolution on GPU is not performance optimized yet.

- Although v24.6 technically runs on H100, it doesn't include
performance-optimized kernels for that device yet and it isn't recommended.

## Mojo {#24-6-mojo}

Mojo is a crucial component of the MAX stack that enables all of MAX's
performance-oriented code across hardware. For all the updates to the Mojo
language, standard library, and tools, see the [Mojo
changelog](https://mojolang.org/releases#v246-2024-12-17).
