# v25.1 (2025-02-13)

- [Highlights](#25-1-highlights)
- [Documentation](#25-1-docs)
- [MAX Serve](#25-1-serve)
- [MAX models](#25-1-max-models)
- [MAX Engine](#25-1-engine)
  - [Graph APIs](#25-1-graph)
  - [Pipeline APIs](#25-1-pipelines)
  - [GPU programming](#25-1-gpus)
- [Mojo](#25-1-mojo)

## ✨ Highlights {#25-1-highlights}

- **Custom ops for GPUs**

  Our new custom op API allows you to extend MAX Engine with new graph
  operations written in Mojo that execute on either CPU or GPU, providing full
  composability and extensibility for your models. See more in the section
  about [GPU programming](#25-1-gpus).

- **Enhanced support for agentic workflows**

  MAX Serve now supports function calling, which allows you to instruct your
  model to interact with other systems, such as retrieve data and execute
  external tasks.
  [Learn more about function calling and tool use](/max/serve/function-calling).

  MAX Serve now supports structured output (also known as constrained decoding)
  for MAX models on GPU. This allows you to enforce the output format from a
  model using an input schema that defines the output structure.
  [Learn more about structured output](/max/serve/structured-output).

- **Extended model architecture support**

  - MAX Serve now supports multimodal models that take both text and image
  inputs. For example, see [how to deploy Llama 3.2
  Vision](/max/tutorials/deploy-llama-vision).

  - MAX Serve now supports text embedding models. Learn how to [deploy a text
  embedding model](/max/tutorials/run-embeddings-with-max-serve).

- **New `max-pipelines` CLI tool**

  Instead of cloning our GitHub repo to access our latest GenAI models, you can
  instead install the `max-pipelines` CLI tool and quickly run an inference or
  deploy an endpoint.

## Documentation {#25-1-docs}

New tutorials:

- [Build custom ops for GPUs](/max/develop/build-custom-ops)

- [Serverless GPU inference on Google Cloud
Run](/max/tutorials/deploy-serverless-cloud-run)

- [Generate image descriptions with Llama 3.2
Vision](/max/tutorials/deploy-llama-vision)

- [Deploy a text embedding model](/max/tutorials/run-embeddings-with-max-serve)

Other docs:

- [Function calling and tool use](/max/serve/function-calling)

- [Structured output](/max/serve/structured-output)

- [Prefix caching with PagedAttention](/max/serve/prefix-caching)

- `max-pipelines` CLI

## MAX Serve {#25-1-serve}

- The `/v1/completions` REST endpoint now supports:

  - Pre-tokenized prompts.

  - Image inputs for multimodal models such as `Llama-3.2-11B-Vision-Instruct`.
  For an example, see [how to generate image
  descriptions with Llama 3.2 Vision](/max/tutorials/deploy-llama-vision).

    **Known issue:** You might receive faulty results because some parts of the
    text prompt get ignored for certain input combinations. We've identified
    the problem and will have a fix in a subsequent nightly
    release.

  - Function calling and tool use, which allows you to instruct your
  model to interact with other systems, such as retrieve data and execute
  external tasks. [Learn more about function calling and tool
  use](/max/serve/function-calling).

  - Structured output (also known as constrained decoding), which allows you to
  enforce the output format from a model using a JSON schema and the
  `response_format` field. To enable constrained decoding pass
  `--enable-structured-output` when running the server. However, this feature
  currently works for MAX models on GPU only (support for PyTorch models and
  CPU is in progress). [Learn more about structured
  output](/max/serve/structured-output).

- Added support for the `/v1/embeddings` API endpoint, allowing you to generate
vector representations using embedding models. See how to [deploy a text
embedding model](/max/tutorials/run-embeddings-with-max-serve).

- Max Serve can evict requests when the number of available pages in the
  PagedAttention KVCache is limited. Before, the KV manager would throw an OOM
  error when a batch that cannot fit in the cache was scheduled.

## MAX models {#25-1-max-models}

- Added the `max-pipelines` CLI tool that simplifies the
process to run inference with GenAI models (specified with a Hugging Face repo
ID) and deploy them to a local endpoint with MAX Serve.

  Previously, running or serving these models required cloning the
  [modular/max](https://github.com/modular/max) GitHub repo and then running
  commands such as `magic run llama3`.

  These model-specific commands like `llama3` and `replit` commands have been
  removed. They're now standardized and subsumed by flags like
  `--model-path` in the `max-pipelines` tool. Arguments such as
  `--max-length` and `--weight-path` are also still supported by
  `max-pipelines`.

  To view a list of supported model architectures from Hugging Face, run
  `max-pipelines list`.

- Added support for PagedAttention, which improves memory efficiency by
partitioning the KV cache into smaller blocks, reducing fragmentation and
enabling larger inference batches. You can enable it with
`--cache-strategy=paged` and `--kv-cache-page-size` with a value that's a
multiple of 128.

- Added support for prefix caching in all cases where PagedAttention is
supported. This allows for more efficient usage of KVCache and improved prefill
performance for workloads with common prefixes. You can enable it by setting
`--enable-prefix-caching`. For more information, see [Prefix caching with
PagedAttention](/max/serve/prefix-caching).

- Batch size and max length are now inferred from available memory and the HF
  Models' default values for max length, respectively. If a configuration leads
  to an OOM, then we provide recommendations (to the best of our ability) to the
  user to fit the model into memory.

- Added support for heterogeneous KV caches for multi-modal models, such as
Llama Vision, which cache different KV states for self and cross attention
layers.

- Added support for embedding models, starting with MPNet. For example:

  ```shell
  max-pipelines generate \
    --model-path=sentence-transformers/all-mpnet-base-v2 \
    --prompt="Encode this sentence."
  ```

  Also see [how to deploy a text
  embedding model](/max/tutorials/run-embeddings-with-max-serve).

- Added support for image and text multimodal models:

  - `max-pipelines generate` now accepts image input with `--image_url`.

  - Added an experimental Pixtral pipeline you can run as follows:

    ```shell
    max-pipelines generate \
      --model-path=mistral-community/pixtral-12b \
      --prompt="What is in this image? [IMG]" \
      --image_url=http://picsum.photos/1024/1024
    ```

    The pipeline is automatically used for all models implementing the
    `LlavaForConditionalGeneration` architecture.

    The implementation currently has a limit of one image. We plan support an
    arbitrary number of images of mixed sizes soon.

  - Added an experimental Llama Vision pipeline you can run as follows:

    ```shell
    max-pipelines generate \
      --model-path=meta-llama/Llama-3.2-11B-Vision-Instruct \
      --prompt="<|image|><|begin_of_text|>What is in this image?" \
      --image_url=http://picsum.photos/1024/1024
    ```

    The pipeline is automatically used for all models implementing the
    `MllamaForConditionalGeneration` architecture.

    Note: This model is gated and requires that you set the
    [`HF_TOKEN`](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/en/package_reference/environment_variables#hftoken)
    environment variable. See
    [Llama-3.2-11B-Vision-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.2-11B-Vision-Instruct).

  - See [how to generate image
    descriptions with Llama 3.2 Vision](/max/tutorials/deploy-llama-vision).

- Added support for the `Qwen2ForCausalLM` model architecture (such as
`Qwen/Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct`). For example:

  ```shell
  max-pipelines generate \
    --model-path=Qwen/Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct \
    --prompt="Write bubble sort in python" \
    --quantization-encoding bfloat16
  ```

- Added support for offline batched inference for text-based LLMs, allowing you
to load a model and run inference with a batch of inputs directly from Python,
instead of relying on an HTTP interface. For an example, see
[`examples/offline-inference/basic.py`](https://github.com/modular/modular/blob/main/max/examples/offline-inference/basic.py).

- The `--max-cache-batch-size` flag has been deprecated in favor of
  `--max-batch-size`. Using `--max-cache-batch-size` now emits a deprecation
  warning and will stop working in a future release.

- The `--use-gpu` flag has been deprecated in favor of `--devices=cpu`,
`--devices=gpu`, or `--devices=gpu-0,gpu-1,...`. If the device isn't specified,
the model runs on the first available GPU, or CPU if no GPUs are available.

## MAX Engine {#25-1-engine}

- Improved internal kernel compilation speed 1.5 - 4X across different models.

  We've revamped our GPU compilation process so that all kernels in a program
  are compiled together into a single LLVM module, then split into separate
  kernels afterward. This ensures shared code between kernel entry points is
  only compiled once. For example, we observe a 3.7x speed up for Llama3.1-8b
  GPU startup time.

- Improved initial model execution speed on NVIDIA GPUs.

  Instead of compiling to PTX and performing just-in-time compilation during
  runtime, we now generate CUBIN binaries directly. While this increases
  initial compilation time, it significantly improves execution speed.

- The kernels have been further tuned for performance on NVIDIA A100 GPUs.

### Graph APIs {#25-1-graph}

- You can now write custom operations (ops) in Mojo, and add them to a graph
  constructed in Python, using
  [`custom()`](/max/api/python/graph.ops#max.graph.ops.custom) and
  [`inplace_custom()`](/max/api/python/graph.ops#max.graph.ops.inplace_custom).

  For more detail, see the section below about [GPU programming](#25-1-gpus).

- Cached compiled MAX graphs that make use of custom operations now get
invalidated when the implementation of the custom operations change.

- [`Graph.add_weight()`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.Graph#max.graph.Graph.add_weight)
now takes an explicit `device` argument. This enables explicitly passing
GPU-resident weights to
[`session.load()`](/max/api/python/engine#max.engine.InferenceSession.load) via
the weights registry to initialize the model.

- [`max.graph.Weight`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.Weight) now inherits
from `TensorValue`, allowing you to call `weight.cast()` or `weight.T`. As such,
the
[`TensorValue`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.TensorValue#max.graph.TensorValue)
no longer accepts `Weight` for the `value` argument.

### Pipeline APIs {#25-1-pipelines}

- `TextTokenizer.new_context()`
now supports tool definitions passed through its `request` argument (via
`TokenGeneratorRequest.tools`).

  - It also now supports JSON schemas passed through its `request` argument (via
    [`TokenGeneratorRequest.response_format`](/max/api/python/pipelines.lib.interfaces#max.pipelines.interfaces.TokenGeneratorRequest.response_format)).

- Removed the default `num_steps` value for
[`TokenGenerator.next_token()`](/max/api/python/pipelines.lib.interfaces#max.pipelines.interfaces.TokenGenerator.next_token),
ensuring users pass a value, reducing the potential for silent errors.

- `KVCacheStrategy`
now defaults to `MODEL_DEFAULT`.

  As opposed to the previous setting which always used the "continuous" caching
  strategy, KV caching strategy is now defaulted on an architecture-specific
  basis to ensure the most optimized caching strategy is used.

- The
[`Linear`](/max/api/python/generated/max.nn.Linear)
layer now has a `create()` class method that automatically creates
specializations of `Linear` for non-quantized, k-quant, or GPTQ layers.

- Added
[`nn.Conv1D`](/max/api/python/generated/max.nn.Conv1D)
for audio models like Whisper.

### GPU programming {#25-1-gpus}

This release includes all new APIs to program on GPUs. The way to write code
for GPUs is to create custom operations with GPU functions that you can load
into a MAX graph. This foundational API includes a few key components:

- Mojo APIs to write custom op functions:

  - The [`@compiler.register`](/max/api/mojo-decorators/compiler-register)
  decorator is applied to a Mojo struct that implements a custom op in an
  `execute()` function—for either CPU or GPU—and a `shape()` function that
  defines the custom op's output tensor.

  - The [`max.tensor`](/max/api/kernels/extensibility/tensor/) package adds
  essential Mojo APIs for writing custom ops, such as:

    - The
      [`foreach()`](/max/api/kernels/extensibility/tensor/managed_tensor_slice/foreach)
    function, which efficiently executes an element-wise computation in parallel
    on either a GPU or CPU.

    - The
      [`ManagedTensorSlice`](/max/api/kernels/extensibility/tensor/managed_tensor_slice/ManagedTensorSlice)
      type defines the input and output tensors for the custom op.

- Python APIs to load custom ops into a model:

  - The [`custom()`](/max/api/python/graph.ops#max.graph.ops.custom) and
  `inplace_custom()`
  functions allow you to add the previously-defined Mojo custom op to a MAX
  graph written in Python.

  - The [`InferenceSession`](/max/api/python/engine#max.engine.InferenceSession)
constructor accepts the custom op implementation as a
[Mojo package](https://mojolang.org/docs/manual/packages#mojo-packages) in
the `custom_extensions` argument.

For more detail, see the [tutorial to build custom ops for
GPUs](/max/develop/build-custom-ops).

Additionally, we've added a new
[`gpu` package](https://mojolang.org/docs/std/gpu/) to the Mojo standard library
that provides low-level programming constructs for working with GPUs. These APIs
let you do things that you can't currently do with the high-level `foreach()`
abstraction above. The Mojo `gpu` APIs allow you to manually manage interaction
between the CPU host and GPU device, manage memory between devices, synchronize
threads, and more. For some examples, see
[`vector_addition.mojo`](https://github.com/modular/modular/blob/main/max/examples/custom_ops/kernels/vector_addition.mojo)
and
[`top_k.mojo`](https://github.com/modular/modular/blob/main/max/examples/custom_ops/kernels/top_k.mojo).

## Mojo {#25-1-mojo}

Mojo is a crucial component of the MAX stack that enables all of MAX's
performance-oriented code across hardware. For all the updates to the Mojo
language, standard library, and tools, see the [Mojo
changelog](https://mojolang.org/releases).
