# v24.3 (2024-05-02)

## 🔥 Legendary

- You can now write custom ops for your models with Mojo!

  Learn more about [MAX extensibility](/max/develop/custom-ops).

## 🦋 Changed

- Added support for named dynamic dimensions. This means you can specify when
  two
or more dimensions in your model's input are dynamic but their sizes at run
time must match each other. By specifying each of these dimension sizes with a
name (instead of using `None` to indicate a dynamic size), the MAX Engine
compiler can perform additional optimizations. See the notes below for the
corresponding API changes that support named dimensions.

- Simplified all the APIs to load input specs for models, making them more
consistent.

### MAX Engine performance

- Compared to v24.2, MAX Engine v24.3 shows an average speedup of 10% on PyTorch
  models, and an average 20% speedup on dynamically quantized ONNX transformers.

### MAX Graph API

The `max.graph` APIs are still changing
rapidly, but starting to stabilize.

- `AnyMoType` renamed to `Type`,
  `MOTensor` renamed to
  `TensorType`, and `MOList`
  renamed to `ListType`.

- Removed `ElementType` in favor of using `DType`.

- Removed `TypeTuple` in favor of using `List[Type]`.

- Removed the `Module` type so you can now start building a graph by directly
  instantiating a `Graph`.

- Some new ops in `max.ops`, including
  support for custom ops.

  See how to [create a custom op in MAX
  Graph](/max/develop/build-custom-ops).

### MAX Engine Python API

- Redesigned
[`InferenceSession.load()`](/max/api/python/engine#max.engine.InferenceSession.load)
to replace the confusing `options` argument with a `custom_ops_path` argument.

  As a result, `CommonLoadOptions`, `TorchLoadOptions`, and
  `TensorFlowLoadOptions` have all been removed.

- [`TorchInputSpec`](/max/api/python/engine#max.engine.TorchInputSpec)
  now supports named dynamic dimensions (previously, dynamic dimension sizes
  could be specified only as `None`). This lets you tell MAX which dynamic
  dimensions are required to have the same size, which helps MAX better optimize
  your model.

### MAX Engine Mojo API

- `InferenceSession.load_model()` was renamed to
`load()`.

- Redesigned
`InferenceSession.load()`
to replace the confusing `config` argument with a `custom_ops_path` argument
for use when [loading a custom op](/max/develop/build-custom-ops), and an
`input_specs` argument for use when loading TorchScript models.

  Doing so removed `LoadOptions` and introduced the new
  `InputSpec` type to define
  the input shape/type of a model (instead of `LoadOptions`).

- New `ShapeElement`
  type to allow for named dynamic dimensions (in `InputSpec`).

- `max.engine.engine` module was renamed to
`max.engine.info`.

### MAX Engine C API

- [`M_newTorchInputSpec()`](/max/api/c/pytorch/config#m_newtorchinputspec)
  now supports named dynamic dimensions (via new `dimNames` argument).

## ❌ Removed

- Removed TensorFlow support in the MAX SDK, so you can no longer load a
TensorFlow SavedModel for inference. However, TensorFlow is still available for
enterprise customers.

  We removed TensorFlow because industry-wide TensorFlow usage has declined
  significantly, especially for the latest AI innovations. Removing TensorFlow
  also cuts our package size by over 50% and accelerates the development of
  other customer-requested features. If you have a production use-case for a
  TensorFlow model, please [contact
  us](https://www.modular.com/request-demo).

- Removed the Python `CommonLoadOptions`, `TorchLoadOptions`, and
  `TensorFlowLoadOptions` classes. See note above about
  `InferenceSession.load()` changes.

- Removed the Mojo `LoadOptions` type. See the note above about
  `InferenceSession.load()` changes.
