# v25.4 (2025-06-18)

- [v25.4 (2025-06-18)](#v254-2025-06-18)
  - [✨ Highlights {#25-4-highlights}](#-highlights-25-4-highlights)
  - [Documentation {#25-4-docs}](#documentation-25-4-docs)
  - [MAX models {#25-4-models}](#max-models-25-4-models)
  - [MAX framework {#25-4-max}](#max-framework-25-4-max)
    - [Inference server {#25-4-max-serve}](#inference-server-25-4-max-serve)
    - [`max` CLI {#25-4-max-cli}](#max-cli-25-4-max-cli)
    - [Python API {#25-4-max-python}](#python-api-25-4-max-python)
    - [Mojo API {#25-4-max-mojo}](#mojo-api-25-4-max-mojo)
    - [Custom ops {#25-4-custom-ops}](#custom-ops-25-4-custom-ops)
    - [GPU programming {#25-4-gpu-programming}](#gpu-programming-25-4-gpu-programming)
  - [Mojo language {#25-4-mojo}](#mojo-language-25-4-mojo)

## ✨ Highlights {#25-4-highlights}

- **AMD GPUs are officially supported!**

  You can now deploy MAX with acceleration on AMD MI300X and MI325X GPUs, using
  the same code and container that works on NVIDIA GPUs. For the first time, you
  can build portable, high-performance GenAI deployments that run on any
  platform without vendor lock-in or platform-specific optimizations.

  For more details, including benchmarks, see our
  [Modular + AMD blog post](https://www.modular.com/blog/modular-x-amd-unleashing-ai-performance-on-amd-gpus).

- **Now accepting GPU kernel contributions**

  Last month, we open-sourced the code for the CPU and GPU kernels that power
  the MAX framework, and now we're accepting contributions! For information
  about how to contribute and the sort of kernels most interesting to us, see
  the
  [MAX AI kernels contributing guide](https://github.com/modular/modular/blob/main/max/kernels/CONTRIBUTING.md).

- **Preview: Mojo interoperability from Python**

  This release includes an early version of a new Python-to-Mojo
  interoperability API. You can now write just the performance-critical parts
  your code in Mojo and call it from Python just like you're importing another
  Python library. Check out our docs to [call Mojo from
  Python](https://mojolang.org/docs/manual/python/mojo-from-python).

## Documentation {#25-4-docs}

We've redesigned [builds.modular.com](https://builds.modular.com) and
[docs.modular.com](https://docs.modular.com) with a unified top navigation bar
that so you can more easily discover all the available docs and code resources.

New docs:

- [GPU Puzzles](https://builds.modular.com/puzzles/introduction.html): Several
new puzzles, including: 1D convolution op, softmax op, attention op,
embedding op, kernel fusion, custom backward pass, GPU functional programming
patterns, and warp fundamentals.

- [Using AI coding assistants guide](/max/coding-assistants): Learn how to use
large language models (LLMs) and coding assistants (such as Cursor and Claude
Code) to accelerate your development with Modular.

- [Build an MLP block as a graph module tutorial](/max/develop/build-an-mlp-block):
Learn how to create reusable `Module` components in your MAX graphs.

- [Write custom ops for PyTorch
tutorial](/max/develop/custom-kernels-pytorch) (Beta feature): Learn to write
high-performance GPU kernels for your PyTorch models with Mojo.

- [Profile MAX kernel
performance](https://github.com/modular/modular/blob/main/max/docs/kernel-profiling.md):
Learn how to set up Nsight Compute to profile your Mojo-based kernels on NVIDIA
GPUs.

Major updates:

- [Build custom ops for GPUs tutorial](/max/develop/build-custom-ops):
  Now includes how to write hardware-specific functions for CPUs and GPUs.

- [Optimize a matrix multiply custom op
tutorial](/max/develop/custom-ops-matmul): Migrated from a Recipe with
revisions to help you improve the performance of your GPU custom ops.

## MAX models {#25-4-models}

- Added the OLMo 2 model architecture
([`olmo2`](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/modular/v25.4.0/max/pipelines/architectures/olmo2)).

  [Try OLMo 2 now](https://builds.modular.com/models/OLMo-2-1124/7B).

- Added Google's Gemma 3 multimodal model architecture
([`gemma3multimodal`](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/modular/v25.4.0/max/pipelines/architectures/gemma3)).

  [Try Gemma3 now](https://builds.modular.com/models/gemma-3-it/1B).

- Added the Qwen 3 model architecture
([`qwen3`](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/modular/v25.4.0/max/pipelines/architectures/qwen3)).

  [Try Qwen3 now](https://builds.modular.com/models/Qwen3/1.7B).

- Added the InternVL3 model architecture
([`internvl`](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/modular/v25.4.0/max/pipelines/architectures/internvl)).
This is still a work in progress.

- GGUF quantized Llamas (q4_0, q4_k, and q6_k) are now supported with paged
  KVCache strategy.

## MAX framework {#25-4-max}

### Inference server {#25-4-max-serve}

- Inflight batching no longer requires chunked prefill.

- Expanded token sampling logic, including top_k, min_p, min_new_tokens,
temperature.

- Extended sampling configuration to be per-request, e.g. different requests
  can ask for different sampling hyperparameters.

- Removed support for TorchScript and torch MLIR models.

### `max` CLI {#25-4-max-cli}

- Added the `--use-subgraphs` flag to `max generate` to allow for the use of
  subgraphs in the model.

- Added the `--port` option to specify the port number with the `max serve`
command.

### Python API {#25-4-max-python}

- Lots of new APIs in the [`max.nn`](/max/api/python/nn) package.

- Added `max.mojo.importer` module to import Mojo code into Python. See the
docs for
[calling Mojo from Python](https://mojolang.org/docs/manual/python/mojo-from-python).

- Added
[`Graph.add_subgraph()`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.Graph#max.graph.Graph.add_subgraph)
to allow for the addition of a subgraph to a graph.

- Added
[`Module.build_subgraph()`](/max/api/python/generated/max.nn.Module#max.nn.Module.build_subgraph)
to allow for the creation of a subgraph for a layer that inherits from `Module`.

- Added the [`call`](/max/api/python/graph.ops#max.graph.ops.call) op
which allows for the execution of a subgraph.

- Added the [`fold`](/max/api/python/graph.ops#max.graph.ops.fold) op for
combining sliding blocks into a larger tensor.

- Added
[`KernelLibrary`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.KernelLibrary)
as an argument type for the
[`Graph`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.Graph) constructor.

- Added
[`QuantizationConfig`](/max/api/python/generated/max.graph.quantization.QuantizationConfig)
to specify quantization parameters for ops such as
[`qmatmul()`](/max/api/python/graph.ops#max.graph.ops.qmatmul).

- Added the `strict` argument to the
[`Module.load_state_dict()`](/max/api/python/generated/max.nn.Module#max.nn.Module.load_state_dict)
method. When `strict=True` (default), an error is raised if the `state_dict`
contains unused keys. When `strict=False`, extra keys are ignored. This helps
model developers identify missing implementations in their models.

- Added audio generator APIs for text-to-speech models (such as
`AudioGenerator`,
`PipelineAudioTokenizer`,
[`TTSContext`](/max/api/python/generated/max.pipelines.TTSContext),
and others). This is still a work in progress.

- The
[`ops.masked_scatter()`](/max/api/python/graph.ops#max.graph.ops.masked_scatter)
function now requires naming the `out_dim` explicitly as it is data-dependent.
For example:

  ```python
  ops.masked_scatter(
      inputs_embeds, video_mask, video_embeds, out_dim="unmasked_inputs"
  )
  ```

- Deprecated the `CONTINUOUS` KVCache strategy
(`KVCacheStrategy`).
Please use `PAGED` KVCache strategy instead.

- Removed the `Settings` argument from
[`LLM`](/max/api/python/entrypoints#max.entrypoints.llm.LLM) constructor. The
server is now automatically configured in the background without consuming an
HTTP port.

- Removed `Graph.unique_symbolic_dim()`.

- Removed `max_to_torch_type()` and `torch_to_max_type()` and replaced them with
[`DType.to_torch()`](/max/api/python/dtype#max.dtype.DType.to_torch) and
[`DType.from_torch()`](/max/api/python/dtype#max.dtype.DType.from_torch),
respectively. This aligns with the corresponding NumPy methods.

- Removed `stats_report` property and `reset_stats_report` method from
[`InferenceSession`](/max/api/python/engine#max.engine.InferenceSession). This
functionality was primarily used for internal PyTorch debugging and is no
longer needed.

- Removed the naive KVCache (`nn.kv_cache.naive_cache`).

- Removed `nn.attention` and `nn.naive_attention_with_rope`.

- Renamed `ops.select` to
[`ops.where`](/max/api/python/graph.ops#max.graph.ops.where). This matches the
name of the similar operation in torch and numpy.

### Mojo API {#25-4-max-mojo}

- [`LayoutTensor`](https://mojolang.org/docs/layout/layout_tensor/LayoutTensor/)
  now has a
`size` method to get the total number of elements.

- Following our [previous deprecation](/max/changelog/#25-3-engine-mojo-api) of
the Mojo `max.driver`, `max.graph` and `max.engine` APIs, we've removed them
from the package and API docs.

As a result, we've also removed Mojo `max.tensor` APIs (including `Tensor`,
`TensorShape`, and `TensorSpec`). You can replace any use with
[`LayoutTensor`](https://mojolang.org/docs/layout/layout_tensor/LayoutTensor/).

### Custom ops {#25-4-custom-ops}

- Improved error messages when custom op parameters are provided with values
  that don't have the proper type.

- The [`ops.custom()`](/max/api/python/graph.ops#max.graph.ops.custom) function
now requires a `device` argument to specify where the operation should execute.
This avoids the need for custom ops to infer their execution device, which can
be error-prone.

- Added the [`max.torch`](/max/api/python/torch) module with the
`CustomOpLibrary` class for using custom Mojo kernels from PyTorch. For
example, with a custom `grayscale` operation written in Mojo:

  ```mojo
  @register("grayscale")
  struct Grayscale:
      @staticmethod
      fn execute[
          # The kind of device this is running on: "cpu" or "gpu"
          target: StaticString,
      ](
          img_out: OutputTensor[dtype = DType.uint8, rank=2],
          img_in: InputTensor[dtype = DType.uint8, rank=3],
          ctx: DeviceContextPtr,
      ) raises:
          ...
  ```

  You can load it with PyTorch like so:

  ```python
  from max.torch import CustomOpLibrary

  op_library = CustomOpLibrary("path/to/custom.mojopkg")

  @torch.compile(backend=backend)
  def grayscale(pic):
      result = pic.new_empty(pic.shape[:-1])
      op_library.grayscale(result, pic)
      return result

  img = (torch.rand(64, 64, 3) * 255).to(torch.uint8)
  result = grayscale(img)
  ```

  See our
  <!-- rumdl-disable-next-line MD013 -->
  [tutorial to write custom ops for PyTorch](/max/develop/custom-kernels-pytorch),
  and our
  <!-- rumdl-disable-next-line MD013 -->
  [PyTorch custom operation examples](https://github.com/modular/modular/tree/main/max/examples/pytorch_custom_ops),
  which range from a very basic "hello world" to the replacement of a layer in a
  full model.

### GPU programming {#25-4-gpu-programming}

- Full support for AMD CDNA3 datacenter GPUs is now available! Specifically,
MI300X and MI325X.

- Added initial support for programming on AMD RDNA3 consumer GPUs. Basic
tuning parameters have been specified for AMD Radeon 780m integrated GPUs. (AMD
RDNA3 support is for GPU programming only; AI models are still missing some GPU
kernels for this architecture.) For details, see the [GPU
requirements](/max/packages#gpu-compatibility).

- Now accepting CPU and GPU kernel contributions. See the [MAX AI kernels
contributing
guide](https://github.com/modular/modular/blob/main/max/kernels/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Mojo language {#25-4-mojo}

For all the updates to the Mojo language, standard library, and tools, see the
[Mojo changelog](https://mojolang.org/releases).

<!-- #########################
     ###### NEW RELEASE ######
     ######################### -->
