# v24.1 (2024-02-29)

The first release of the MAX platform is here! 🚀

This is a **preview version** of the MAX platform. That means it
is not ready for production deployment and designed only for local development
and evaluation.

Because this is a preview, some API libraries are still in development and
subject to change, and some features that we previously announced are not quite
ready yet. But there is a lot that you can do in this release!

This release includes our flagship developer tools, currently for **Linux
only**:

- **MAX Engine**: Our state-of-the-art graph compiler and runtime library that
executes models from PyTorch and ONNX, with incredible inference
speed on a wide range of hardware.

  - API libraries in Python, C, and Mojo to run inference with your existing
    models. [See the API references](/max/api).

  - The `max benchmark` tool, which runs MLPerf
    benchmarks on any compatible model without writing any code.

  - The `max visualize` tool, which allows you to visualize
    your model in Netron after partially lowering in MAX Engine.

  - An early look at the MAX Graph API, our
    low-level library for building high-performance inference graphs.

- **MAX Serving**: A preview of our serving wrapper for MAX Engine that
provides full interoperability with existing AI serving systems (such as
Triton) and that seamlessly deploys within existing container infrastructure
(such as Kubernetes).

  - A Docker image that runs MAX Engine as a backend for NVIDIA Triton
    Inference Server.

- **Mojo**: The world's first programming language built from the ground-up for
  AI
developers, with cutting-edge compiler technology that delivers unparalleled
performance and programmability for any hardware.

  - The latest version of Mojo, the standard library, and the `mojo` command
    line tool. These are always included in MAX, so you don't need to download
    any separate packages.

  - The Mojo changes in each release are often quite long, so we're going to
    continue sharing those in the existing
    [Mojo changelog](https://mojolang.org/releases).

Additionally, we've started a new [GitHub repo for
MAX](https://github.com/modular/max), where we currently share a bunch of
code examples for our API libraries, including some large model pipelines.
You can also use this repo to [report issues with
MAX](https://github.com/modular/modular/issues/new/choose).

## Model Architecture Support

- Added support for the following model architectures:
  - `OlmoForCausalLM` (such as `allenai/OLMo-1B-0724-hf`)
  - `GraniteForCausalLM` (such as `ibm-granite/granite-3.1-8b-instruct`)
  - `Phi3ForCausalLM` (for Microsoft Phi-3 models)
  - `Qwen2ForCausalLM` (such as Qwen2 models)

  Example usage:

  ```sh
  max-pipelines generate \
    --model-path allenai/OLMo-1B-0724-hf \
    --prompt "Write bubble sort in mojo"
  ```

- The `max.pipelines.dataprocessing.tokenizer` and
`max.pipelines.dataprocessing.gguf_utils` modules have been removed.

- The previously deprecated `PipelineConfig.architecture` field and its
corresponding `--architecture` CLI argument have been removed.

## `max-pipelines` CLI

- The `--devices` CLI argument now supports a comma-separated list of GPU IDs
prefixed with `gpu:` like `--devices=gpu:0,1,2,3`. We no longer support the
previous `--devices=gpu-<N>` format.

  ```sh
  max-pipelines generate --model-path=meta-llama/Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct \
    --quantization-encoding bfloat16 \
    --devices gpu:0,1,2,3 \
    --prompt="Design a self-sustaining colony on Neptune's moon Triton with a myth/science fusion name, three quantum tech breakthroughs, one ethical debate, a neon-lit cultural ritual, and a hidden flaw—presented in bullet points."
  ```

- Removed `--huggingface-repo-id` PipelineConfig option and CLI argument in
  favor
of `--model-path`.

- Consolidated `-model-path` and `-weight-path`. If valid `-weight-path`(s) are
provided, they'll now override `--model-path`, which in turn handles both local
and remote (Hugging Face) cases. If we cannot derive the weights from the
`--weight-path`(s), we'll now fall back to the `--model-path`, which has to be
set explicitly by the user.

- Added `--huggingface-revision` option, to allow selecting a non-default branch
or a specific commit in a Hugging Face model repository.
