# v24.4 (2024-06-07)

## ­¤öź Legendary

- MAX is now available on macOS! [Try it now](/max).

- New quantization APIs for MAX Graph. You can now build high-performance
graphs in Mojo that use the latest quantization techniques, enabling even
faster performance and more system compatibility for large models.

  Learn more in the guide to [quantize your graph weights](/max/graph/quantize).

## ŌŁÉ’ĖÅ New

### MAX Mojo APIs

- Added AI pipeline examples in the `max` repo, with Mojo implementations for
  common transformer layers, including quantization support.

  - New Llama3 pipeline built with MAX Graph.

  - New Replit Code pipeline built with MAX Graph.

  - New TinyStories pipeline (based on TinyLlama) that offers a simple demo of
  the MAX Graph quantization API.

- Added `max.graph.checkpoint` package
to save and load model weights.

  All weights are stored in a
  `TensorDict`.
  You can save and load a `TensorDict` to disk with
  `save()` and
  `load()` functions.

- Added MAX Graph quantization APIs:

  - Added quantization encodings
  `BFloat16Encoding`,
  `Q4_0Encoding`,
  `Q4_KEncoding`,
  and
  `Q6_KEncoding`.
  - Added the
  `QuantizationEncoding`
  trait so you can build custom quantization encodings.
  - Added `Graph.quantize()`
    to create a quantized tensor node.
  - Added `qmatmul()` to
  perform matrix-multiplication with a float32 and a quantized matrix.

- Added some MAX Graph ops:

  - `avg_pool()`
  - `max_pool()`
  - `conv2d()`
  - `conv3d()`
  - `layer_norm()`
  - `tile()`
  - `select()`

- Added a `layer()` context
manager and
`current_layer()`
function to aid in debugging during graph construction. For example:

  ```mojo
  with graph.layer("foo"):
      with graph.layer("bar"):
          print(graph.current_layer())  # prints "foo.bar"
          x = graph.constant[DType.int64](1)
          graph.output(x)
  ```

  This adds a path `foo.bar` to the added nodes, which will
  be reported during errors.

- Added
  `format_system_stack()`
  function to format the stack trace, which we use to print better error
  messages from `error()`.

- Added
`TensorMap.keys()` to
get all the tensor key names.

### MAX C API

Miscellaneous new APIs:

- `M_cloneCompileConfig()`
- `M_copyAsyncTensorMap()`
- `M_tensorMapKeys()` and `M_deleteTensorMapKeys()`
- `M_setTorchLibraries()`

## ­¤”ŗ Changed

### MAX Mojo API

- `EngineNumpyView.data()`
and `EngineTensorView.data()`
functions that return a type-erased pointer were renamed to `unsafe_ptr()`.

- `TensorMap` now conforms
to `CollectionElement` trait to be copyable and movable.

- `custom_nv()` was removed, and its functionality moved into
  `custom()` as a function
  overload, so it can now output a list of tensor symbols.
