mojo/docs/_includes/gpu-requirements.mdx, before:

Because we don't test every variant of a GPU architecture, and support for new
architectures will improve incrementally, we've divided our list of compatible
GPUs into 3 tiers:

#### Tier 1: Fully supported

We provide full support and testing for the following data center GPUs:

- NVIDIA B200 (Blackwell)
- NVIDIA H100 and H200 (Hopper)
- AMD Instinct MI355X (CDNA4)
- AMD Instinct MI300X and MI325X (CDNA3)

#### Tier 2: Confirmed compatibility

We've confirmed full compatibility with the following GPUs but we
don't maintain tests for them:

- NVIDIA A100 and A10 (Ampere)
- NVIDIA L4 and L40 (Ada Lovelace)
- NVIDIA RTX 50XX series (Blackwell)
- NVIDIA RTX 40XX series (Ada Lovelace)
- NVIDIA RTX 30XX series (Ampere)
- NVIDIA Jetson Orin and Orin Nano (Ampere)

#### Tier 3: Limited compatibility

We've either confirmed or received reports that the following GPUs work for GPU
programming with Mojo. Some can also execute basic graphs with MAX APIs.
However, none of these currently run major GenAI models with MAX:

- Apple silicon GPUs (M1 - M5)
- NVIDIA RTX 20XX series (Turing)
- NVIDIA T4 (Turing)
- NVIDIA GTX 10XX series (Pascal)
- NVIDIA Tesla P100 (Pascal)
- AMD Radeon RX 9000 series (RDNA4)
- AMD Radeon 800M series (RDNA3.5)
- AMD Radeon 8050S / 8060S (RDNA3.5)
- AMD Radeon 700M series (RDNA3)
- AMD Radeon RX 7000 series (RDNA3)

If you've had success with any GPUs not listed here, please [let us know on
Discord](https://discord.gg/modular).

#### GPU software requirements

Make sure you have the corresponding GPU software:

- If you're on an **NVIDIA GPU**:

  - NVIDIA GPU driver version 580 or higher

    - Check your NVIDIA GPU driver version using
  [nvidia-smi](https://developer.nvidia.com/system-management-interface)
    - To update, see the [NVIDIA driver
    docs](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/drivers/)

- If you're on an **AMD GPU**:

  - AMD GPU driver version 6.3.3 or higher

    - For datacenter GPUs (MI300X/MI325X), see the [Ubuntu native install
    guide](https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/install-on-linux/en/latest/install/install-methods/package-manager/package-manager-ubuntu.html)
    - For Radeon GPUs on Ubuntu, see the [Linux install guide for Radeon
    software](https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/radeon/en/latest/docs/install/native_linux/install-radeon.html)
    - For Radeon GPUs on WSL, see the [WSL install guide for Radeon
    software](https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/radeon/en/latest/docs/install/wsl/install-radeon.html)

Commit message:

[Driver] Upgrade libnvptxcompiler from CUDA 12.9 to CUDA 13.1
Update the minimum requirements information in public documentation.

MODULAR_ORIG_COMMIT_REV_ID: 133a76cc3b2a1e38780bb75b2f457a19397b5546

mojo/docs/_includes/gpu-requirements.mdx, after:

Because we don't test every variant of a GPU architecture, and support for new
architectures will improve incrementally, we've divided our list of compatible
GPUs into 3 tiers:

#### Tier 1: Fully supported

We provide full support and testing for the following data center GPUs:

- NVIDIA B200 (Blackwell)
- NVIDIA H100 and H200 (Hopper)
- AMD Instinct MI355X (CDNA4)
- AMD Instinct MI300X and MI325X (CDNA3)

#### Tier 2: Confirmed compatibility

We've confirmed full compatibility with the following GPUs but we
don't maintain tests for them:

- NVIDIA A100 and A10 (Ampere)
- NVIDIA L4 and L40 (Ada Lovelace)
- NVIDIA RTX 50XX series (Blackwell)
- NVIDIA RTX 40XX series (Ada Lovelace)
- NVIDIA RTX 30XX series (Ampere)
- NVIDIA Jetson Orin and Orin Nano (Ampere)

#### Tier 3: Limited compatibility

We've either confirmed or received reports that the following GPUs work for GPU
programming with Mojo. Some can also execute basic graphs with MAX APIs.
However, none of these currently run major GenAI models with MAX:

- Apple silicon GPUs (M1 - M5)
- NVIDIA RTX 20XX series (Turing)
- NVIDIA T4 (Turing)
- AMD Radeon RX 9000 series (RDNA4)
- AMD Radeon 800M series (RDNA3.5)
- AMD Radeon 8050S / 8060S (RDNA3.5)
- AMD Radeon 700M series (RDNA3)
- AMD Radeon RX 7000 series (RDNA3)

#### Pre-Turing NVIDIA GPUs

Pre-Turing NVIDIA GPUs (such as Pascal-generation GTX 10XX and Tesla P100) are
not supported out of the box. To use Mojo and MAX on these GPUs, set the
`MODULAR_NVPTX_COMPILER_PATH` environment variable to point to a system
`ptxas` binary compatible with your hardware and driver version.

If you've had success with any GPUs not listed here, please [let us know on
Discord](https://discord.gg/modular).

#### GPU software requirements

Make sure you have the corresponding GPU software:

- If you're on an **NVIDIA GPU**:

  - NVIDIA GPU driver version 580 or higher

    - Check your NVIDIA GPU driver version using
  [nvidia-smi](https://developer.nvidia.com/system-management-interface)
    - To update, see the [NVIDIA driver
    docs](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/drivers/)
    - For older driver versions, you can set the
    `MODULAR_NVPTX_COMPILER_PATH` environment variable to point to a
    system `ptxas` binary to bypass this requirement

- If you're on an **AMD GPU**:

  - AMD GPU driver version 6.3.3 or higher

    - For datacenter GPUs (MI300X/MI325X), see the [Ubuntu native install
    guide](https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/install-on-linux/en/latest/install/install-methods/package-manager/package-manager-ubuntu.html)
    - For Radeon GPUs on Ubuntu, see the [Linux install guide for Radeon
    software](https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/radeon/en/latest/docs/install/native_linux/install-radeon.html)
    - For Radeon GPUs on WSL, see the [WSL install guide for Radeon
    software](https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/radeon/en/latest/docs/install/wsl/install-radeon.html)
