docs/max/develop/tensors.mdx, before:

---
title: Tensor fundamentals
sidebar_label: Tensors
sidebar_position: 1
description: This page provides an overview of tensors, why they matter, and how to create and work with them in MAX.
---

Tensors are the fundamental building blocks of neural network models in MAX.
They represent multi-dimensional arrays of numbers used for model inputs,
outputs, and parameters.

If you're coming from NumPy, think of a MAX
[`Tensor`](/max/api/python/tensor#max.tensor.Tensor) like
a NumPy [`ndarray`](https://numpy.org/devdocs/reference/arrays.ndarray.html#arrays-ndarray).

A tensor is a multi-dimensional array of numbers. You can think of tensors as:

- Rank 0 (scalar): a single number (like `72.5`)
- Rank 1 (vector): a 1-D tensor or list of numbers (like `[1, 2, 3, 4]`)
- Rank 2 (matrix): a 2-D tensor or table of numbers (like a spreadsheet with rows and columns)
- Rank 3+ (higher-dimensional arrays): a 3-or-more dimensional tensor (stacks of matrices or more complex structures)

:::tip Coming from PyTorch or NumPy?

There are some key differences between tensors in MAX and tensors in PyTorch or
NumPy. For example, tensors in MAX are created using the `Tensor.constant()`
function instead of direct construction, many math operations use the functional
API (`F.sqrt()` instead of `.sqrt()`), and reduction operations keep dimensions
by default.

:::

## Create a tensor

You can create a tensor from a Python list using the [`Tensor.constant()`](/max/api/python/tensor#max.tensor.Tensor.constant) function:

{/* @sync: _examples/tensors/create_first_tensor.py */}
```python
from max.tensor import Tensor

# Create a simple 1-D tensor (a vector)
x = Tensor.constant([1, 2, 3, 4, 5])

print(x)
```

This imports the [`Tensor`](/max/api/python/tensor#max.tensor.Tensor) class and
creates a 1-D tensor (a vector) with the values `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`. The
`constant()` function creates a tensor from a tensor-like object; meaning, it
can be a list, a NumPy array, or a PyTorch tensor.

The expected output is:

```output
TensorType(dtype=float32, shape=[Dim(5)], device=cpu:0): [1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0]
```

:::note Performance note

`Tensor.constant()` performance optimizations are still being improved. In the
meantime, if you need better performance when creating tensors on accelerators,
use:

```python
import numpy as np
from max.driver import Accelerator
from max.tensor import Tensor

np_array = np.array([1.0, 2.0, 3.0])
tensor = Tensor.from_numpy(np_array).to(Accelerator())
```

:::

:::note About dtype and device

Notice that when creating the tensors, the output shows the dtype and device.
The dtype is the data type of the tensor, and the device is the device on which
the tensor will be stored. We'll cover dtypes and devices in more detail in the
[Data Types (dtype)](/max/develop/dtypes) and
[Devices](/max/develop/tensors#device) sections.

:::

You can also create tensors with any number of dimensions by nesting lists:

{/* @sync: _examples/tensors/create_multi_dim.py */}
```python
from max.tensor import Tensor

# Create a 2-D tensor (a matrix)
matrix = Tensor.constant([[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6]])
print(matrix)

# Create a 3-D tensor (a cube of numbers)
cube = Tensor.constant([[[1, 2], [3, 4]], [[5, 6], [7, 8]]])
print(cube)
```

The expected output is:

```output
TensorType(dtype=float32, shape=[Dim(2), Dim(3)], device=cpu:0): [1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0]
TensorType(dtype=float32, shape=[Dim(2), Dim(2), Dim(2)], device=cpu:0): [1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0, 7.0, 8.0]
```

MAX provides convenient functions for creating tensors with specific patterns,
such as [`ones()`](/max/api/python/tensor#max.tensor.Tensor.ones)
and [`zeros()`](/max/api/python/tensor#max.tensor.Tensor.zeros):

{/* @sync: _examples/tensors/create_factory.py */}
```python
from max.driver import CPU
from max.dtype import DType
from max.tensor import Tensor

# Tensor filled with ones
ones = Tensor.ones([3, 4], dtype=DType.float32, device=CPU())
print(ones)

# Tensor filled with zeros
zeros = Tensor.zeros([2, 3], dtype=DType.float32, device=CPU())
print(zeros)
```

The expected output is:

```output
TensorType(dtype=float32, shape=[Dim(3), Dim(4)], device=cpu:0): [1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0]
TensorType(dtype=float32, shape=[Dim(2), Dim(3)], device=cpu:0): [0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0]
```

For random data, you can use one of several functions from the [`random`](/max/api/python/random) module,
such as [`random.normal()`](/max/api/python/random#max.random.normal):

{/* @sync: _examples/tensors/create_random.py */}
```python
from max import random

# Random values from a normal distribution
random_tensor = random.normal([3, 3])
print(random_tensor)
```

The expected output is:

```output
TensorType(dtype=float32, shape=[Dim(3), Dim(3)], device=cpu:0): [1.6810914278030396, 2.3331382274627686, -0.25120288133621216, 0.8896129131317139, 1.6362168788909912, -1.9282348155975342, -0.4372555911540985, -0.8747910261154175, 0.5068135857582092]
```

You can adjust the mean and standard deviation of the normal distribution to
create tensors with different values:

```python
random_tensor = random.normal([3, 3], mean=0.0, std=1.0)
print(random_tensor)
```

The expected output will vary (since it's random), but will look similar to this:

```output
TensorType(dtype=float32, shape=[Dim(3), Dim(3)], device=cpu:0): [-0.5, 1.2, -0.8, 0.3, -1.1, 0.7, 0.2, -0.4, 0.9]
```

:::note

The actual values will be different each time you run the code, as they are randomly generated from a normal (Gaussian) distribution with mean 0.0 and standard deviation 1.0.

:::

## Tensor properties

Every tensor has several key properties that tell you about its structure and
contents.

### Shape

The *shape* tells you the size of each dimension of the tensor. It's a list
where each number represents the size along that dimension:

{/* @sync: _examples/tensors/properties_shape.py */}
```python
from max.tensor import Tensor

# 1-D tensor
x = Tensor.constant([1, 2, 3, 4])
print(x.shape)

# 2-D tensor
matrix = Tensor.constant([[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6]])
print(matrix.shape)

# 3-D tensor
cube = Tensor.constant([[[1, 2], [3, 4]], [[5, 6], [7, 8]]])
print(cube.shape)
```

The expected output is:

```output
[Dim(4)]
[Dim(2), Dim(3)]
[Dim(2), Dim(2), Dim(2)]
```

In this example, the [`shape`](/max/api/python/tensor#max.tensor.Tensor.shape)
property returns a list of `Dim` objects representing the size of each dimension.

### Rank

The *rank* (also called number of dimensions) tells you how many axes the
tensor has:

{/* @sync: _examples/tensors/properties_rank.py */}
```python
from max.tensor import Tensor

scalar = Tensor.constant([42])  # Rank 1 (it's a 1-element vector)
vector = Tensor.constant([1, 2, 3])  # Rank 1
matrix = Tensor.constant([[1, 2], [3, 4]])  # Rank 2
cube = Tensor.constant([[[1, 2], [3, 4]], [[5, 6], [7, 8]]])  # Rank 3

print(vector.rank)  # 1
print(matrix.rank)  # 2
print(cube.rank)  # 3
```

### Data type (dtype)

*Dtype*, or data type, is a property of a tensor that tells you the type of the
data stored in the tensor. For example, a tensor can contain integers: `int32`,
floating-point numbers: `float32`, or booleans: `bool`.

{/* @sync: _examples/tensors/properties_dtype.py */}
```python
from max.dtype import DType
from max.tensor import Tensor

# Float tensor (default for most operations)
floats = Tensor.ones([2, 2], dtype=DType.float32)

# Integer tensor
integers = Tensor.ones([2, 2], dtype=DType.int32)
```

MAX supports a wide range of dtypes, including all standard NumPy and PyTorch
dtypes. You will learn more about dtypes in the
[Data Types (dtype)](/max/develop/dtypes) section.

### Device

The *device* tells you where the tensor operation occurs and is stored:

{/* @sync: _examples/tensors/properties_device.py */}
```python
from max.driver import CPU
from max.tensor import Tensor

# Tensor on CPU
cpu_tensor = Tensor.ones([2, 2], device=CPU())
```

When you need to perform operations on a tensor, you need to specify the device
on which the tensor is stored. Currently, MAX supports CPU and GPU devices by
specifying either the `CPU()` or `Accelerator()` class.

### Total elements

You can check how many numbers are stored in the tensor:

{/* @sync: _examples/tensors/properties_num_elements.py */}
```python
from max.tensor import Tensor

t = Tensor.constant([[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6]])
print(t.num_elements())  # 6 (2 rows × 3 columns)
```

In this example, the expected output is:

```output
6
```

The [`num_elements()`](/max/api/python/tensor#max.tensor.Tensor.num_elements) function returns the total number of elements in the
tensor, which is the product of the dimensions.

## Next steps

Now that you understand tensor basics, continue to
[Data Types (dtype)](/max/develop/dtypes) to learn how to
control tensor precision and memory usage.

Commit message:

[MAX] Remove Legacy from ModuleV2, Move eager APIs to experimental
This restores the graph-based API as the default `max.nn` interface and
moves the newer eager APIs into their own namespaces:

- `max.tensor`, `max.functional`, `max.random` move back to
`max.experimental`
- `max.nn.Module`, `max.nn.Linear`, etc. (eager) move to
`max.nn.module_v3`
- `max.nn.legacy` contents move up to `max.nn`, making the graph API the
default
- `_Legacy` suffix removed from all architecture class names
- Architectures with both a V2 and V3 implementation get `_ModuleV3` on
the V3 side to distinguish them
- `--no-use-legacy-module` flag renamed to `--prefer-module-v3`

The net effect is that most pipelines (Deepseek, Gemma, etc.) no longer
say "Legacy" in user-facing output, and `max.nn` imports give you the
graph API without reaching into a legacy subpackage.

Eager API becomes opt-in

MODULAR_ORIG_COMMIT_REV_ID: 154593a7132d375824dfa2bb2578d1f891c1af28

docs/max/develop/tensors.mdx, after:

---
title: Tensor fundamentals
sidebar_label: Tensors
sidebar_position: 1
description: This page provides an overview of tensors, why they matter, and how to create and work with them in MAX.
---

Tensors are the fundamental building blocks of neural network models in MAX.
They represent multi-dimensional arrays of numbers used for model inputs,
outputs, and parameters.

If you're coming from NumPy, think of a MAX
[`Tensor`](/max/api/python/tensor#max.experimental.tensor.Tensor) like
a NumPy [`ndarray`](https://numpy.org/devdocs/reference/arrays.ndarray.html#arrays-ndarray).

A tensor is a multi-dimensional array of numbers. You can think of tensors as:

- Rank 0 (scalar): a single number (like `72.5`)
- Rank 1 (vector): a 1-D tensor or list of numbers (like `[1, 2, 3, 4]`)
- Rank 2 (matrix): a 2-D tensor or table of numbers (like a spreadsheet with rows and columns)
- Rank 3+ (higher-dimensional arrays): a 3-or-more dimensional tensor (stacks of matrices or more complex structures)

:::tip Coming from PyTorch or NumPy?

There are some key differences between tensors in MAX and tensors in PyTorch or
NumPy. For example, tensors in MAX are created using the `Tensor.constant()`
function instead of direct construction, many math operations use the functional
API (`F.sqrt()` instead of `.sqrt()`), and reduction operations keep dimensions
by default.

:::

## Create a tensor

You can create a tensor from a Python list using the [`Tensor.constant()`](/max/api/python/tensor#max.experimental.tensor.Tensor.constant) function:

{/* @sync: _examples/tensors/create_first_tensor.py */}
```python
from max.experimental.tensor import Tensor

# Create a simple 1-D tensor (a vector)
x = Tensor.constant([1, 2, 3, 4, 5])

print(x)
```

This imports the [`Tensor`](/max/api/python/tensor#max.experimental.tensor.Tensor) class and
creates a 1-D tensor (a vector) with the values `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`. The
`constant()` function creates a tensor from a tensor-like object; meaning, it
can be a list, a NumPy array, or a PyTorch tensor.

The expected output is:

```output
TensorType(dtype=float32, shape=[Dim(5)], device=cpu:0): [1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0]
```

:::note Performance note

`Tensor.constant()` performance optimizations are still being improved. In the
meantime, if you need better performance when creating tensors on accelerators,
use:

```python
import numpy as np
from max.driver import Accelerator
from max.experimental.tensor import Tensor

np_array = np.array([1.0, 2.0, 3.0])
tensor = Tensor.from_numpy(np_array).to(Accelerator())
```

:::

:::note About dtype and device

Notice that when creating the tensors, the output shows the dtype and device.
The dtype is the data type of the tensor, and the device is the device on which
the tensor will be stored. We'll cover dtypes and devices in more detail in the
[Data Types (dtype)](/max/develop/dtypes) and
[Devices](/max/develop/tensors#device) sections.

:::

You can also create tensors with any number of dimensions by nesting lists:

{/* @sync: _examples/tensors/create_multi_dim.py */}
```python
from max.experimental.tensor import Tensor

# Create a 2-D tensor (a matrix)
matrix = Tensor.constant([[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6]])
print(matrix)

# Create a 3-D tensor (a cube of numbers)
cube = Tensor.constant([[[1, 2], [3, 4]], [[5, 6], [7, 8]]])
print(cube)
```

The expected output is:

```output
TensorType(dtype=float32, shape=[Dim(2), Dim(3)], device=cpu:0): [1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0]
TensorType(dtype=float32, shape=[Dim(2), Dim(2), Dim(2)], device=cpu:0): [1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0, 7.0, 8.0]
```

MAX provides convenient functions for creating tensors with specific patterns,
such as [`ones()`](/max/api/python/tensor#max.experimental.tensor.Tensor.ones)
and [`zeros()`](/max/api/python/tensor#max.experimental.tensor.Tensor.zeros):

{/* @sync: _examples/tensors/create_factory.py */}
```python
from max.driver import CPU
from max.dtype import DType
from max.experimental.tensor import Tensor

# Tensor filled with ones
ones = Tensor.ones([3, 4], dtype=DType.float32, device=CPU())
print(ones)

# Tensor filled with zeros
zeros = Tensor.zeros([2, 3], dtype=DType.float32, device=CPU())
print(zeros)
```

The expected output is:

```output
TensorType(dtype=float32, shape=[Dim(3), Dim(4)], device=cpu:0): [1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0]
TensorType(dtype=float32, shape=[Dim(2), Dim(3)], device=cpu:0): [0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0]
```

For random data, you can use one of several functions from the [`random`](/max/api/python/random) module,
such as [`random.normal()`](/max/api/python/random#max.experimental.random.normal):

{/* @sync: _examples/tensors/create_random.py */}
```python
from max.experimental import random

# Random values from a normal distribution
random_tensor = random.normal([3, 3])
print(random_tensor)
```

The expected output is:

```output
TensorType(dtype=float32, shape=[Dim(3), Dim(3)], device=cpu:0): [1.6810914278030396, 2.3331382274627686, -0.25120288133621216, 0.8896129131317139, 1.6362168788909912, -1.9282348155975342, -0.4372555911540985, -0.8747910261154175, 0.5068135857582092]
```

You can adjust the mean and standard deviation of the normal distribution to
create tensors with different values:

```python
random_tensor = random.normal([3, 3], mean=0.0, std=1.0)
print(random_tensor)
```

The expected output will vary (since it's random), but will look similar to this:

```output
TensorType(dtype=float32, shape=[Dim(3), Dim(3)], device=cpu:0): [-0.5, 1.2, -0.8, 0.3, -1.1, 0.7, 0.2, -0.4, 0.9]
```

:::note

The actual values will be different each time you run the code, as they are randomly generated from a normal (Gaussian) distribution with mean 0.0 and standard deviation 1.0.

:::

## Tensor properties

Every tensor has several key properties that tell you about its structure and
contents.

### Shape

The *shape* tells you the size of each dimension of the tensor. It's a list
where each number represents the size along that dimension:

{/* @sync: _examples/tensors/properties_shape.py */}
```python
from max.experimental.tensor import Tensor

# 1-D tensor
x = Tensor.constant([1, 2, 3, 4])
print(x.shape)

# 2-D tensor
matrix = Tensor.constant([[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6]])
print(matrix.shape)

# 3-D tensor
cube = Tensor.constant([[[1, 2], [3, 4]], [[5, 6], [7, 8]]])
print(cube.shape)
```

The expected output is:

```output
[Dim(4)]
[Dim(2), Dim(3)]
[Dim(2), Dim(2), Dim(2)]
```

In this example, the [`shape`](/max/api/python/tensor#max.experimental.tensor.Tensor.shape)
property returns a list of `Dim` objects representing the size of each dimension.

### Rank

The *rank* (also called number of dimensions) tells you how many axes the
tensor has:

{/* @sync: _examples/tensors/properties_rank.py */}
```python
from max.experimental.tensor import Tensor

scalar = Tensor.constant([42])  # Rank 1 (it's a 1-element vector)
vector = Tensor.constant([1, 2, 3])  # Rank 1
matrix = Tensor.constant([[1, 2], [3, 4]])  # Rank 2
cube = Tensor.constant([[[1, 2], [3, 4]], [[5, 6], [7, 8]]])  # Rank 3

print(vector.rank)  # 1
print(matrix.rank)  # 2
print(cube.rank)  # 3
```

### Data type (dtype)

*Dtype*, or data type, is a property of a tensor that tells you the type of the
data stored in the tensor. For example, a tensor can contain integers: `int32`,
floating-point numbers: `float32`, or booleans: `bool`.

{/* @sync: _examples/tensors/properties_dtype.py */}
```python
from max.dtype import DType
from max.experimental.tensor import Tensor

# Float tensor (default for most operations)
floats = Tensor.ones([2, 2], dtype=DType.float32)

# Integer tensor
integers = Tensor.ones([2, 2], dtype=DType.int32)
```

MAX supports a wide range of dtypes, including all standard NumPy and PyTorch
dtypes. You will learn more about dtypes in the
[Data Types (dtype)](/max/develop/dtypes) section.

### Device

The *device* tells you where the tensor operation occurs and is stored:

{/* @sync: _examples/tensors/properties_device.py */}
```python
from max.driver import CPU
from max.experimental.tensor import Tensor

# Tensor on CPU
cpu_tensor = Tensor.ones([2, 2], device=CPU())
```

When you need to perform operations on a tensor, you need to specify the device
on which the tensor is stored. Currently, MAX supports CPU and GPU devices by
specifying either the `CPU()` or `Accelerator()` class.

### Total elements

You can check how many numbers are stored in the tensor:

{/* @sync: _examples/tensors/properties_num_elements.py */}
```python
from max.experimental.tensor import Tensor

t = Tensor.constant([[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6]])
print(t.num_elements())  # 6 (2 rows × 3 columns)
```

In this example, the expected output is:

```output
6
```

The [`num_elements()`](/max/api/python/tensor#max.experimental.tensor.Tensor.num_elements) function returns the total number of elements in the
tensor, which is the product of the dimensions.

## Next steps

Now that you understand tensor basics, continue to
[Data Types (dtype)](/max/develop/dtypes) to learn how to
control tensor precision and memory usage.
